# KG_421_FinalProject
BIOE 421 Microcontrollers final project

	Older models of the Toyota Prius have a plastic undercarriage with an exposed catalytic converter. These converters are made of palladium, a precious metal that can be resold for up to $2,875 an ounce. Due to the easy access to the undercarriage of the Prius, they are popular targets of theft, especially in Houston. Thefts of these parts have jumped up by nearly eight times in some states. Security plates are currently available, but are not recommended by mechanics due to the plastic material of the undercarriage. To minimize risk of theft, I propose to implement a microcontroller security system. This system will deter theft by sounding a loud alarm when a sensor detects that someone is attempting to remove the catalytic converter. This sensor could take the form of a light sensor detecting the change in light when someone passes underneath the car. It could also take the form of the accelerometer detecting the jostling movements on the catalytic converter when someone is attempting to remove it. The system will only be in place while the car is parked, and will either have to be manually placed underneath the car each time or wirelessly turned on and off. The system will wirelessly communicate with a bluetooth speaker for the alarm. The bluetooth speaker can be charged using the cigarette lighter on the inside of the car. Any components on the underside of the car will need to be battery powered. There are similar alarms on the market, but they go for around $200. This device will be a quick and cheap alternative for those with a bluetooth speaker to better protect their cars. 
